# happening-bunker-preparation
Preparation for the Happening Bunker servers and client applications.

## What is the Happening Bunker?
Happening Bunker (HB) is the name of an application (desktop first then mobile) meant to act as a decentralized and privacy-minded social media platform. Along with the client application, there will also be containerized servers for easy deployment of new servers by anyone with the application.

## Features
* Open source - both client applications and server applications will be available on GitHub and licensed via Apache 2.0.
* A basic social media UI with profiles, posts, groups, and permissions.
* A reputation system based on user ratings as well as accuracy of posts (adding flags to posts containing nudity or graphic violence)
* Each server will have at least one superadmin who is the primary arbiter of the server (the superadmin can add other superadmins as well). If somebody posts something containing material which should be flagged (nudity or graphic violence) but does not properly flag it, then if someone sees that post and flags it for them, a superadmin will be notified and check to make sure the flag is accurate (no user data or description data will be available to the superadmin, just the image or video itself). If the superadmin approves the changed flag, then the user who posted the unflagged post will receive a very small reputation penalty for not properly flagging their post.
* Personal responsibility - each user decides who they want to associate with. They can join groups, connect with friends, block people they do not like. They can also selects kinds of posts which they want flagged. In a system like this, it is inevitable that there will be pornography and all sorts of stuff which many people are not interested in seeing (especially those with little children looking over their shoulders), and they will be able to select which flags they do not want to see (nudity and/or graphic violence). They will be able to completely hide the posts with flagged content, or they can have it still show up in their feed but be blurred out until they click to show what is underneath.
* Cryptographically-secure user tied to a private key and transferrable between installations via QR code. User is static and tied to their private key, not any particular back-end or database, meaning the user itself is able to log onto any back-end HB server which it has not been blocked from.
* Anonymity - because a user is tied to a private key rather than an email or personal identity, all users have the option of being completely anonymous if they choose.
* End-to-end encryption on all private messages and they are only stored on client devices, not on any HB server or database.
* Self-Distribution - each client application will contain its own universal installer as well as the containerized server. The user will have the optiont to opt-out of seeding, but the default will be that each client application seeds torrents of both the front and back end. These will be accessible via  magnet link. This way, there is no single server which can be shut down to stop distribution. As long as a single client application exists, both the client and server applications will be available for distribution. Each application will also have a link to save both as regular files as well, if the user wants to share the actually installer or server files rather than share a magnet link with someone who wants to download the files.
* Automatic Update Checking and downloading - the only centralized point of any application will be the update checking. Each application, regardless of what back-end it is on, will check the happeningbunker.org servers for any newer versions of the application and will download it automatically via torrent and prompt the user to install it when ready. If anything happens to the happeningbunker.org servers, the client applications will still work completely and continue on as if nothing has happened, the only difference would be that they can no longer check for updates. There will be a text file on the user's computer where they can manually specify update servers, if they want to change them to a different update stream (this would likely be unused but would need to be there in case the main update servers are compromised).
* Back-end agnostic - anybody can run a HB server and share it with those who they want to join it. When the client application opens, there will be a list of servers one has registered, and there will be an option to add servers as well. So, anybody who wants the added privacy of running their own servers will be able to do that and know that they control everything about the data from the application. This also means that there will never be a single set of servers that anybody could shut down to stop the application. If a server is compromised or shut down, users can just use other servers instead. Also, since the application is self-seeding, in a worst-case scenario where every single server is shut down at once, anyone with the application already both has the server files and is seeding the server as well, so anybody with a client application or magnet link can download and run a new server.
